@node Motif, , Reporting Bugs, Top
@chapter A Motif Graphical User Interface for Oleo

@menu
* Motif Introduction::
* LessTif::
* Advantages::
* What you need::
* Alternatives::
* Using the mouse::
* Using the keyboard shortcuts::
* Fallback::
@end menu

@node Motif Introduction, LessTif, , Motif
@section Motif Introduction

Motif is a toolkit for building graphical user interfaces (GUIs)
with the X Window System.

Such a GUI has been built for oleo.
The combination of oleo and its Motif interface
comes close to professional quality spreadsheets
that one can buy off the shelf.

@node LessTif, Advantages, Motif Introduction, Motif
@section LessTif

When this manual talks about Motif,
it refers to what is commonly referred to as OSF/Motif,
a user interface toolkit for the X Window System which was
originally developped by the Open Software Foundation (OSF).
The OSF has merged with X/Open,
the new name of the organisation is The Open Group.

A free implementation of Motif, called LessTif,
which is available from http://www.lesstif.org,
can be used instead of Motif.
LessTif is covered by the LGPL (Library General Public License).

@node Advantages, What you need, LessTif, Motif
@section Advantages

@node What you need, Alternatives, Advantages, Motif
@section What you need

@node Alternatives, Using the mouse, What you need, Motif
@section Alternatives

Another toolkit for building GUIs is GTK.
It is also freely available,
and another user interface for oleo may be built with it too.

GTK is the FSF's official GUI toolkit.

@node Using the mouse, Using the keyboard shortcuts, Alternatives, Motif
@section Using the mouse

@node Using the keyboard shortcuts, Fallback, Using the mouse, Motif
@section Using the keyboard shortcuts

@node Fallback, , Using the keyboard shortcuts, Motif
@section Fallback

If you have a version of oleo that has been built with Motif support,
but you don't currently have an X Window System display
(for instance you're using a dialup connection),
then it is still possible to use the curses based character user interface.
